Add blog post to announce CNI version-related breaking change (#33240)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2022-04-28-cni-version-related-breaking-change.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Breaking changes related to CNI version in popular container runtimes"

> date: 2022-04-28T12:00:00+0000

Reviewer: We'll need to choose what day this will go out -- just commenting so that we don't forget if it gets merged in before release day.

Author: @nate-double-u I think the ask was to get this out for public visibility sooner rather than later? Or must this wait for GA to go live?

Reviewer: I'm happy for it to go out before release day too.
/cc @JamesLaverack @mickeyboxell

slug: cni-version-related-breaking-change-k8s-1.24

> canonicalUrl: https://kubernetes.dev/blog/2022/04/28/cni-version-related-breaking-change-k8s-1.24/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

---

> **Authors & Contributors:** [Mike Brown](https://github.com/mikebrow), [Rolfe Dlugy-Hegwer](https://github.com/rolfedh),[Nate W.](https://github.com/nate-double-u), and others.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Authors:** Mike Brown, Rolfe Dlugy-Hegwer, Nate Waddington, and others.
```

Usually we list authors' employers / affiliations after their names, inside parens.

Reviewer: If we remove the _contributors_ designation, I'm not sure I belong in the list -- at best I think my byline would be "editor," and even then I'm happy to be a part of the _, and others_ here :)

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> **Authors & Contributors:** [Mike Brown](https://github.com/mikebrow), [Rolfe Dlugy-Hegwer](https://github.com/rolfedh),[Nate W.](https://github.com/nate-double-u), and others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Authors & Contributors:** [Mike Brown](https://github.com/mikebrow), [Rolfe Dlugy-Hegwer](https://github.com/rolfedh),[Nate Waddington](https://github.com/nate-double-u), and others.
```

Author: Based on a previous request from @sftim and your previous comments, I've simplified this list. Let me know if you want our name to appear nevertheless.

---

> ## Introduction

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

(We don't start blog articles with a heading)

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> TL;DR: Before you upgrade to Kubernetes 1.24, if you use a CNI network plugin that complies with Container Network Interface (CNI) versions earlier than v1.0.0 and you plan to use any of the following container runtimes, you must specify the CNI version. Otherwise, your network will break.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_TL;DR: Before you upgrade to Kubernetes 1.24, if you use a CNI network plugin that complies
with Container Network Interface (CNI) versions earlier than v1.0.0 and you plan to use either
of the following container runtimes, you must specify the CNI version. Otherwise, your cluster
network will break._
```

Maybe change “complies with” to “is set up to use”?

Author: Updated. Thanks.

This issue applies to the following container runtimes:

> - containerd v1.6.0 and later
> - CRI-O 1.24 and later

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- **containerd** v1.6.0 and later
- **CRI-O** 1.24 and later
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

Here’s an overview of the typical steps to perform on each node:

> 1. [Safely drain and cordon the node](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/safely-drain-node/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Safely drain and cordon the node](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/safely-drain-node/).
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

2. After stopping your container runtime and kubelet services, perform the following upgrade operations:
  - If you’re running CNI plugins, upgrade them to the latest version.
  - If you’re using non-CNI plugins, replace them with CNI plugins. Use the latest version of the plugins.

>   - Update the configuration file (which one?) to specify/match the version of the CNI specification that the plugin supports.

Reviewer 2: Explain which file to change here.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

  - For `containerd`, ensure that you have installed the latest version (v1.0.0 or later) of the CNI loopback plugin.

>   - Upgrade to Kubernetes 1.24

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Upgrade node components (for example, the kubelet) to Kubernetes 1.24
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

  - Upgrade to or install the most current version of the container runtime.
3. Bring the node back into your cluster by restarting your container runtime and kubelet.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Uncordon the node.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

The following bash command generates a default CNI config. Here, the 1.0.0 value for the config version is assigned to the `cniVersion` field for use when `containerd` invokes the CNI bridge plugin.

```bash
cat << EOF | tee /etc/cni/net.d/10-containerd-net.conflist
{
 "cniVersion": "1.0.0",
 "name": "containerd-net",
 "plugins": [
   {
     "type": "bridge",
     "bridge": "cni0",
     "isGateway": true,
     "ipMasq": true,
     "promiscMode": true,
     "ipam": {
       "type": "host-local",
       "ranges": [
         [{
           "subnet": "10.88.0.0/16"
         }],
         [{
           "subnet": "2001:4860:4860::/64"
         }]
       ],
       "routes": [
         { "dst": "0.0.0.0/0" },
         { "dst": "::/0" }
       ]
     }
   },
   {
     "type": "portmap",
     "capabilities": {"portMappings": true}
   }
 ]
}
EOF
```

> <a name="troubleshooting"></a>

Reviewer: I don't think we need this, the markdown parser should pickup the next line as a title anchor.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

## Troubleshooting

If the version of your CNI plugin does not correctly match the plugin version in the config because the config version is later than the plugin version, the containerd log may/will likely show an error message on startup of a pod similar to:

```
incompatible CNI versions; config is \"1.0.0\", plugin supports [\"0.1.0\" \"0.2.0\" \"0.3.0\" \"0.3.1\" \"0.4.0\"]"
```

Follow the instructions to update your CNI plugins and CNI config files to fix this problem.

If the version of the plugin is missing in the CNI plugin config, the pod may run. However, when the pod is stopped, an error will be reported similar to:

```

> ERRO[2022-04-26T00:43:24.518165483Z] StopPodSandbox for "b" failed                 error="failed to destroy network for sandbox \"bbc85f891eaf060c5a879e27bba9b6b06450210161dfdecfbb2732959fb6500a\": invalid version \"\": the version is empty"

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this is the intended spacing of this error.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

---
layout: blog
title: "Breaking changes related to CNI version in popular container runtimes"
date: 2022-04-28T12:00:00+0000

> slug: cni-version-related-breaking-change-k8s-1.24

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> slug: cni-version-related-breaking-change-k8s-1.24

Reviewer 3: sgtm

---

**Authors:** Mike Brown (IBM), Rolfe Dlugy-Hegwer (Red Hat), and others.

---

_TL;DR: Before you upgrade to Kubernetes 1.24, if you use a CNI network plugin
that is set up to use Container Network Interface (CNI) versions earlier than
v1.0.0 and you plan to use any of the following container runtimes, you must

> specify the CNI version. Otherwise, your network will break._

Author: @mikebrow ? Which is more correct:
- "will" to indicate that is a highly probable outcome.
- "might" to indicate that this is a possible (but not highly probable) outcome.

> specify the CNI version. Otherwise, your network will break._

Reviewer 3: sgtm

> specify the CNI version. Otherwise, your network will break._

Author: Updated. Thanks.

This issue applies to the following container runtimes:
- **containerd** v1.6.0 and later
- **CRI-O** 1.24 and later

Here’s an overview of the typical steps to perform on each node:

1. [Safely drain and cordon the node](/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/safely-drain-node/).
2. After stopping your container runtime and kubelet services, perform the
following upgrade operations:

>   - If you’re running CNI plugins, upgrade them to the latest version.

Reviewer 2: Why is this step needed? We don't make that clear.

Reviewer 3: well that would depend on which plugins you are using, whether they are in support, which version of the cni libraries they were built against, what config files you have for which pods you want to keep running, which bug fixes one may need, and whether to stay on pre 1.0 releases ..  but yes it's not an order .. just a recommendation

>   - If you’re using non-CNI plugins, replace them with CNI plugins. Use the
>   latest version of the plugins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    latest version of the plugin if feasible.
```

Reviewer 3: sgtm

>   - Update the plugin configuration file to specify/match the version of the CNI
>   specification that the plugin supports.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Update the plugin configuration file to specify or match a version of the CNI
    specification that the plugin supports.
```

Reviewer 3: sgtm

  - For `containerd`, ensure that you have installed the latest version (v1.0.0
  or later) of the CNI loopback plugin.
  - Upgrade node components (for example, the kubelet) to Kubernetes 1.24
  - Upgrade to or install the most current version of the container runtime.
3. Bring the node back into your cluster by restarting your container runtime

> and kubelet. Uncordon the node.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

If you performed the upgrade without following these steps and your network is
broken, see the following [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## Explanation

> CNI enables Kubernetes 1.24 networking. The given container runtimes support the

Reviewer 2: > CNI enables Kubernetes 1.24 networking.

I'm wary of implying that CNI doesn't also enable for Kubernetes 1.21, 1.22, 1.23 etc.

Author: @mikebrow What do you think about rephrasing this as:
```suggestion
Networking in Kubernetes 1.24 requires CNI. The given container runtimes support the
```

Reviewer 3: I think @sftim 's comment is more to ok what about the other releases... 

suggest removing the version number from the sentence...

Author: Removed `1.24` from the current phrase. Thanks.

most current versions of CNI, v1.0.0 and later. For CNI to work, you must use a
CNI plugin, and its configuration file must specify the CNI version for which
the plugin was compiled.

> If the version of the plugin is not specified, CNI v1.0.0 determines that the

Reviewer 3: assume.. .. I'd use `makes the presumption`

> If the version of the plugin is not specified, CNI v1.0.0 determines that the

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> plugin is v0.1.0, even if this is not the version. As a DevOps engineer or
> administrator, you must review your CNI configuration files to ensure that they

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configuration version for that file is v0.1.0, even if this isn't what you intended.
As a Kubernetes cluster operator, you must review your CNI configuration files to ensure that they
```

Author: Updated. Thanks. @mikebrow PTAL.

> specify the correct plugin version. If an incorrect version is specified, errors

Reviewer 2: Is this right?
```suggestion
declare the CNI config version that you are actually following. Each network plugin
supports different versions of CNI; plugins can support multiple versions. You must
ensure that the config CNI version matches one of the CNI interface versions that
your network plugin setup is able to support.
If you specify a config version that isn't compatible with your plugins, or the container
runtime infers the default `0.1.0` spec version, errors
```

Reviewer 3: sgtm

might occur.

You must safely drain and cordon a node before upgrading the CNI plugins on the
node to a current version. Draining is required because the currently running
pods have a networking setup based on the older CNI plugins. To correctly tear
down the network on the running pods, you should leave the older version of the

> CNI Plugins in place to perform the cordoning operation correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CNI plugins in place to perform the cordoning operation correctly.
Once all the Pods on that node have exited, it's OK to revise the network
plugin configuration.
```

Reviewer 3: sgtm

## An example containerd configuration file

The following example shows a configuration for `containerd` runtime v1.6.x,

> which supports the latest version of CNI, v1.0.x.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
which supports a recent version of the CNI specification (v1.0.0).
```

Reviewer 3: sgtm

Please see the documentation from your plugin and networking provider for
further instructions on configuring your system.

> By default, the `containerd` runtime adds a loopback interface, `lo`, to
> containers via the CNI plugin. The loopback plugin is distributed with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Kubernetes, containerd runtime adds a loopback interface, `lo`, to Pods
as a default behavior.
The containerd runtime configures the loopback interface via a CNI plugin, `loopback`.
The `loopback` plugin is distributed as part of the
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> `containerd` release binaries that have the `cni` designation. `containerd`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`containerd` release artifacts that have the `cni` designation. `containerd`
```
(or “archives”, or “packages”)

v1.6.0 and later includes a CNI v1.0.0-compatible loopback plugin as well as
other default CNI plugins. The configuration for the loopback plugin is done

> internally and is set to CNI v1.0.0. This means the version of the loopback

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
internally to containerd, and is set to use CNI v1.0.0. This also means that the version of
the `loopback`
````

Author: Updated. Thanks. @mikebrow PTAL.

Reviewer 3: internally by containerd, 

otherwise sgtm

Reviewer 3: reason "by" is that information is exposed/recoreded, logged, and available via info and inspecp(od) services

Author: Updated. Thanks.

plugin must be v1.0.0 or later when this newer version `containerd` is started.

> The following bash command generates a default CNI config. Here, the 1.0.0 value

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following bash command generates an example CNI config. Here, the 1.0.0 value
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

for the config version is assigned to the `cniVersion` field for use when
`containerd` invokes the CNI bridge plugin.

```bash
cat << EOF | tee /etc/cni/net.d/10-containerd-net.conflist
{
 "cniVersion": "1.0.0",
 "name": "containerd-net",
 "plugins": [
   {
     "type": "bridge",
     "bridge": "cni0",
     "isGateway": true,
     "ipMasq": true,
     "promiscMode": true,
     "ipam": {
       "type": "host-local",
       "ranges": [
         [{
           "subnet": "10.88.0.0/16"
         }],
         [{

>            "subnet": "2001:4860:4860::/64"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
           "subnet": "2001:db8:4860::/64"
```
(Use a documentation IP address block, not a real one).

Author: Updated. Thanks.

         }]
       ],
       "routes": [
         { "dst": "0.0.0.0/0" },
         { "dst": "::/0" }
       ]
     }
   },
   {
     "type": "portmap",
     "capabilities": {"portMappings": true}
   }
 ]
}
EOF
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

ℹ⃝  Make sure to update the IP address ranges based on your use case and network
addressing plan.

```

Author: ```suggestion
Update the IP address ranges in the preceding example with ones that are based on your use case and network addressing plan.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

---
layout: blog

> title: "Breaking changes related to CNI version in popular container runtimes"

Reviewer 4: At this point, there shouldn't be any breaking changes (now that we've fixed the libcni regression).

date: 2022-04-28T12:00:00+0000
slug: cni-version-support-changes-container-runtimes
---

**Authors:** Mike Brown (IBM), Rolfe Dlugy-Hegwer (Red Hat), and others.

---

_TL;DR: Before you upgrade to Kubernetes 1.24, if you use a CNI network plugin
that is set up to use Container Network Interface (CNI) versions earlier than
v1.0.0 and you plan to use any of the following container runtimes, you must
specify the CNI version. Otherwise, your network will break._

This issue applies to the following container runtimes:

> - **containerd** v1.6.0 and later

Reviewer 4: confirm with @mikebrow exactly which versions of containerd are affected -- I think this range now has an upper bound.

  - Upgrade node components (for example, the kubelet) to Kubernetes 1.24
  - Upgrade to or install the most current version of the container runtime.
3. Bring the node back into your cluster by restarting your container runtime
and kubelet. Uncordon the node (`kubectl uncordon <nodename>`).

If you performed the upgrade without following these steps and your network is
broken, see the following [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

## Explanation

CNI enables Kubernetes 1.24 networking. The given container runtimes support the
most current versions of CNI, v1.0.0 and later. For CNI to work, you must use a
CNI plugin, and its configuration file must specify the CNI version for which
the plugin was compiled.

If you use a CNI configuration that does not specify the CNI specification
version in use, the CNI integration code within the container runtime
(containerd or CRI-O) assumes that the configuration version for that file is
v0.1.0, even if this isn't what you intended. As a Kubernetes cluster operator,
you must review your CNI configuration files to ensure that they specify the
correct plugin version. If an incorrect version is specified, errors might
occur.

> You must safely drain and cordon a node before upgrading the CNI plugins on the

Reviewer 4: All of the CNI-project plugins support in-place upgrades. Users should contact their network vendors to see if they need to drain and cordon.

---
layout: blog

> title: "CNI version-related breaking change in Kubernetes 1.24 GA"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "Breaking changes related to CNI version in popular container runtimes"
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

date: 2022-04-28T12:00:00+0000
slug: cni-version-related-breaking-change-k8s-1.24
canonicalUrl: https://kubernetes.dev/blog/2022/04/28/cni-version-related-breaking-change-k8s-1.24/
---

**Authors & Contributors:** [Mike Brown](https://github.com/mikebrow), [Rolfe Dlugy-Hegwer](https://github.com/rolfedh),[Nate W.](https://github.com/nate-double-u)

---

> **IMPORTANT** Urgent upgrade notes

Reviewer: I'm not sure the release note structure works here as we're writing a blog entry.

I think here we should highlight the nature of the issue rather than that it is an upgrade note.

Author: Updated. Thanks.

> (No, really, you MUST read this before you upgrade) Before you upgrade to Kubernetes 1.24, if you use a CNI network plugin that complies with Container Network Interface (CNI) versions earlier than v1.0.0 and you plan to use any of the following container runtimes, you must specify the CNI version as described in [Declaring the CNI version of your plugin](TBD). Otherwise, your network will break.

Reviewer 2: > **IMPORTANT** Urgent upgrade notes
> (No, really, you MUST read this before you upgrade)

This text is appropriate for the release notes, but not a standalone blog.

This issue applies to the following container runtimes:
containerd v1.6.0 and later
CRI-O 1.24 and later

If you performed the upgrade without following these steps and your network is broken, see [<link to troubleshooting topic>]().

FEATURE STATE: Kubernetes v1.24 GA

> TLDR... For Kubernetes v1.24 GA, when you upgrade one of the following container runtimes, safely drain (cordon) your node, upgrade your CNI plugins to the latest versions, and confirm that your CNI config files specify/match the correct versions for your plugins. For `containerd`, ensure that you have installed the latest version (v1.0.0 or later) of the CNI loopback plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TL;DR: For Kubernetes v1.24 GA, when you upgrade one of the following container runtimes, safely drain (cordon) your node, upgrade your CNI plugins to the latest versions, and confirm that your CNI config files specify/match the correct versions for your plugins. For `containerd`, ensure that you have installed the latest version (v1.0.0 or later) of the CNI loopback plugin.
```

Author: Sorry - this was WIP - I ended up consolidating this content.

Upgrade to or install the most current version of the container runtime.
Bring the node back into your cluster by restarting your container runtime and kubelet.

CNI enables Kubernetes 1.24 networking. The given container runtimes support the most current versions of CNI, v1.0.0 and later. For CNI to work, you must use a CNI plugin, and its configuration file must specify the CNI version that the plugin was compiled against.

If the version of the plugin is not specified, CNI v1.0.0 determines that the plugin is v0.1.0, even if this is not the version. If an incorrect version is specified, errors might occur. As a DevOps engineer or administrator, you must review your CNI configuration files to ensure that they specify the correct plugin version.

You must safely drain and cordon a node before upgrading the CNI plugins on the node to a current version. Draining is required because the currently running pods have a networking setup based on the older CNI plugins. To correctly tear down the network on the running pods, you should leave the older version of the CNI Plugins in place to perform the cordoning operation correctly.

An example containerd configuration file

> The following example shows a configuration for `containerd` runtime v1.6.x, which supports the latest version of CNI, v1.0.x. For further instructions, please see the documentation from your plugin and networking provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a configuration for `containerd` runtime v1.6.x, which supports the latest version of CNI, v1.0.x. Please see the documentation from your plugin and networking provider for further instructions.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.

By default, the `containerd` runtime adds a loopback interface, `lo`, to containers via the CNI plugin. The loopback plugin is distributed with the `containerd` release binaries that have the `cni` designation. `containerd` v1.6.0 and later includes a CNI v1.0.0-compatible loopback plugin as well as other default CNI plugins. The configuration for the loopback plugin is done internally and is set to CNI v1.0.0. This means the version of the loopback plugin must be v1.0.0 or later when this newer version `containerd` is started.

> The following bash command generates a default CNI config. Here, the 1.0.0 value for the config version is assigned to the  `cniVersion` field, for use when `containerd`  invokes the CNI bridge plugin.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following bash command generates a default CNI config. Here, the 1.0.0 value for the config version is assigned to the `cniVersion` field for use when `containerd`  invokes the CNI bridge plugin.
```

Author: Updated. Thanks.
